Week 1 WHM/cPanel Activities.  Please detail out how you have done each one of these tasks.

1) Setup 3 package types one being a reseller with 3 different feature sets.

2) Create 1 reseller account and assign it its own nameservers and packages.

3) Create 5 accounts under the reseller account via the WHM for that reseller with 5 different domain names and various packages.

4) Set Exim to run on port 26 along with port 25.

5) Update your email address in the WHM so you receive emails from WHM/cPanel, root and the nobody user.

6) Switch your server to run CGI for both PHP5 and PHP4 via the WHM. Then switch back to suPHP.

7) Change and configure your server to run Courier for the POP and IMAP daemons. Now come to your senses and switch back to Dovecot.

8) Make sure your all of your server's Apache logs are getting rotated via WHM.

9) Configure remote mysql access to your server from our office IP address via WHM.  Test the connection and report your results.

10) Remove clamAV if it is installed on your server via the WHM.  If it is not installed install it.

11) Explain how you would access an accounts' document root in a web browser that's assigned a shared IP address versus a dedicated IP address.

12) Get a trial LiteSpeed license and install LiteSpeed on your server replacing Apache as your httpd daemon.

13) Generate a SSL cert for your main server domain name and install the self signed SSL cert on it.

14) Install WordPress on your main domain.  Detail out the steps that you had to use to do so within your cPanel.

15) Reset all of your server's SSL certs for all WHM/cPanel services. In which situations would this be necessary?

16) Disable the AppConfig registration notifications emails. 

17) Set your server to Automatic (CURRENT tree) cPanel updates and update cpanel.

18) Enable only AWstats on your server.

19) Set the max number of emails that your server can send per hour to 100.

20) Back up your Exim config both locally and on the server, then reset the exim conf and exim ACLs to defaults.

21) Park jdoss-likes-to-wear-snuggies.com on top of your main domain via your domain's cPanel.  Also park google.com.   Report the results.

22) Create an FTP account via cPanel and then try to connect via SCP, SFTP, FTP w/TLS and FTP.  Do the same tests with your main cPanel username.  Report results and reasons for failure.

23) Disable POP3 on your server.

24) Setup 3 addon domains, wiredtreetest1.com, wiredtreetest2.com, wiredtreetest3.com and  out side of your main domain's document root.

25) Give the SSL and non SSL ports for cPanel, WHM and Webmail.

26) Give a list of all open ports on your server and match up the cPanel based services to each port.

27) Create a full cPanel backup of your main site.

28) Use the autofixer script to reset your ssh config via the web browser.

29) Determine where WHM >> DNS Functions » Nameserver IPs gets its information.

30) Install the spamdconf plugin.

31) Ensure that when someone emails a non-existant email account, the email fails to deliver.

32) Ensure that 'nobody' is not allowed to send email (we all know that nobody is a filthy spammer)

33) Make sure that disk quota information is always accurate up to the minute. Look for cache in Tweak Settings.

34) Disable the display of Indexes in Apache

35) Set the start, min spare, and max spare servers to 4, 4, and 8

36) Double the PHP config values for max_input_time, max_execution_time

37) Ensure that only the spamhaus and spamcop RBLs are enabled within Exim

38) Logout of WHM. Try to login using the wrong password enough times to trip cPHulk

39) Try to make the firewall block you. Besides failed logins, what else could trip the firewall?

40) Explain how a client could remove a block on an IP via WHM
